church of the Highlands, thank you for the goodness of our God.
Let's give him some praise.
I just so inspired by watching Mackenzie's story and just the goodness of God right there in the middle of her situation, just celebrating that and just want to take a moment.
Say hello to all of our locations.
We just joined together as one family, one big church family across Alabama and Georgia.
What an honor it is to be with everyone today at every location online on demand in the correctional facilities wherever you're watching.
God is truly with us today, and we are now seven weeks into a series all about the goodness of God.
Psalm 34a, are you all okay if I go straight to the word of God today?
Come on, we need it.
Come on, Psalm 34a, it's been our key text, put it on the screen.
Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good and blessed are those who take refuge and hymns.
We've been saying it for seven weeks.
We're gonna say it strong today.
God is good.
And all the time, come on, put your hands together and let's celebrate one more time, the goodness of our God.
And God is good.
God is good in Birmingham.
God is good in Tuscaloosa.
God is good in Auburn.
Come on, God is good with that UAB football victory.
I had to say it.
God is good.
Maybe not so much in Memphis today, but he is in Birmingham.
And so God is good.
We're celebrating that in this series.
And if you've missed any of these seven weeks, please go back and watch them.
God is truly
uniquely timed this series, and we just heard so much feedback from people of how God's met them right where they are.
So I won't go through all of the topics, but they've been powerful topics around serving and growing different areas.
But today's topic is a little different.
Out of a serious topic, we're gonna have fun today, we're gonna get the word of God, but there's definitely a weight to today.
Today we're gonna talk about suffering.
And no one got up and took a lap right there, right?
It's a serious topic, but in fact, about six months ago,
This is the topic God actually kind of birthed in my heart that led to this whole series.
And so today if you have your app, I'd love you to take it out to take notes.
Today, very important day to take notes.
I believe God's gonna minister to our hearts and notes our way for us just to collect thoughts and of course to write down some things that can help us even beyond Sunday.
Today we're gonna talk about how Jesus wept.
How we as a people can experience the goodness of God even in the middle of our suffering.
And this is one of those topics.
I mean, I think all of us would kind of rather avoid it.
We wished it wasn't part of the human experience.
We wish it wasn't part of life.
But like it or not, suffering is a part of what we are, what we're going to face here on earth in this life.
And I'm just so excited that we don't have to avoid it, that we can get into the Word of God and let God meet us right in the middle of it.
It's the goodness of God in our suffering.
And again, for six months, I've been praying for today that I can't express
I can tell you this, I am so confident through the Holy Spirit today that God's going to meet us right where we are, no matter what our suffering looks like.
The word suffering in the Bible is actually really broad.
When we think about suffering, typically we think about the situation we're in, but I'm actually really grateful that the Bible paints a broad picture of suffering.
The word in the Greek is pathema, which just means
You know, something that we're facing, it's a hardship or a pain.
And it's broad on purpose because God wants to make sure you know whatever it is you're going through.
You know, sometimes we do like the, like the Richter scale, like, well, this was a 10.0 and this was, you know, a 1.3.
God's not like that.
Whatever we're walking through, any of the agony, pain, trials and suffering, the Bible uses lots of words.
God puts this broadly out there so we can know no matter what it is, He wants to meet us in it.
Isn't that amazing?
just a picture of the goodness of God.
So whether your situation's like McKinsey, I mean, losing both parents at 21 years old, can you imagine?
I mean, what that would have felt like?
Or maybe today your suffering looks like pain, maybe relational pain or physical pain, maybe it's an illness.
I think a lot of us, maybe every one of us have walked through recently, disappointment, maybe it's betrayal or just the results.
Your suffering is the results of a bad decision you've made, the circumstances that have come from that or even your suffering through temptation.
No matter what we go through personally, one of the things we also experience is suffering as others walk through pain.
We all know that is a different kind of suffering.
Especially, come on parents, where are you at?
When your kids are going through something?
Come on, y'all know what I'm talking about.
That's just an intense level of suffering.
The big idea is this, God wants you to know today.
No matter what your suffering looks like, He wants to meet you.
You can experience His goodness in the middle of that.
Amen, everybody?
Come on, y'all believe it out there today?
We're gonna teach it today, but I want you to have faith.
Your heart's open today, all of our hearts open to answer this question.
How do we experience the goodness of God in our suffering?
Right in the middle of it, where we are today, how do we experience the goodness of God?
So if you have your Bible today, I hope you do.
Open up to John chapter 11, it'll be in your app as well, or you can of course, as always, fall along on screen, but we're actually gonna work through pretty much the entire chapter of John chapter 11.
And this is a fascinating chapter.
I have a few fun facts.
I love this kind of stuff.
Maybe you do.
It's just good to have context of what we're going to study today.
John 11 is the account of the miracle of the resurrection of a God named Lazarus.
Fascinating.
This is actually the most detailed and complete miracle of Jesus recorded in the gospels.
And you're going to see today why it is so complete and detailed.
It's so intentional.
God has purpose in every single word.
We are going to read today.
It's the seventh in the book of John.
There are actually seven miracles or seven signs.
This is the seventh of those seven signs revealing that Jesus is, come on somebody, the resurrection and he is the life.
Can I get amen right there?
That's our God.
That's who he is.
Also, just again, fun fact contains the shortest verse in the Bible.
And so we're going to get our Sunday school badges today.
We're going to memorize the verse.
Y'all ready for this?
Are y'all ready for it?
All right, John.
Everybody say John?
1135.
Jesus wept.
You just memorize the Bible verse.
Give yourselves a hand clap of applause, all right?
So yeah, praise God.
And then here's a big idea.
The key that I want us to have in our hearts today to unlock the power of this truth is the word belief.
And John intentionally says that word eight times in this story.
And so again, if you got your Bibles, we'll start in verse one.
John chapter 11, it says, now a man named Lazarus was sick.
He was from Bethany.
The village of Mary and her sister, Martha.
This Mary, whose brother Lazarus, Natalie Sick, was the same one who poured perfume on the Lord and wiped his feet with her hair.
So the sisters, we'll come back to this a little later on in the message, it's both of them, Martha and Mary.
The sisters sent word to Jesus, Lord, the one you love is sick.
When you heard this, Jesus said, this sickness will not end in death.
Know it is for God's glory, so God's son may be glorified through it.
Now, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
So when he heard that he was sick, Jesus got on his horse and ran there, or he's donkey and got there as fast as he could.
Jesus took all sprinting and he ran to the side of this man that he loves.
Now, what does it say?
He stayed where he was for two more days.
We're gonna wrestle with that in just a minute.
And then he said to his disciples, let us go back to Judea.
So I wanna pause right here in the story.
We'll come back to the text.
But I want to pause right here in the story.
And again, in your app, you have these points.
There are three important things for us to believe.
We want to kind of work towards what do we do, answering that question.
How do we experience God's goodness?
I promise we're going to get there today.
But we got to secure ourselves, especially in this topic with what we believe.
If we don't know what we believe, especially in suffering, we're going to get blown around like the wind by just the pain.
And so I want to start with verse one, I'm kind of pull out of truth here.
And the Bible says now, a man named Lazarus was sick.
And here's the truth.
Go ahead and write it down.
We're going to talk about it.
God is not the cause of our suffering.
And we got to have this truth where we can't go any further than this.
Jesus hears about this sickness, but he did not cause this sickness.
And in fact, Romans 5 tells us, this is an important truth church, that all sickness, all suffering is the result of sin entering into the earth.
So this is not a result of God suffering, sickness, trials, temptation, all those are a result of a fallen earth.
And so this is the big idea here and I have some props to help us today.
All the way back to the beginning of time, we know that in Genesis chapter one, we know that God created the heavens and the earth, and He made everything perfect.
We have this picture of the garden where Adam and Eve have a perfect relationship with God.
There is beauty and there's, you know, again, relationship, intimacy, all of those things.
But we know in chapter three, that old serpent enters in, right?
And at least the way I learned it back in Sunday school was it was an apple tree that gets involved and there's a temptation that leads us in and now sin enters into the story.
Now here's the really amazing news.
God did not leave us in our sin.
Anyone grateful for that?
In fact, the whole Old Testament, if you want to get some context or even to help me as you read, the whole Old Testament church is the story of God's rescue mission to earth.
And then we get into the New Testament, the four Gospels, and we see Jesus born in a manger.
We see Jesus live those 30 years and then do three years, his last three years on earth of ministry.
And then he went to the cross.
He shed blood for the forgiveness of our sins and the destroyed death.
But when he went into that grave and three days later, he came out of that grave.
Anybody grateful today for the resurrection?
Now, here's what's important.
This is redemption.
We are now redeemed, we're living here on earth, but this is not the end of the story.
All right, we are still living on a fallen earth, but we have redemption, we have the power of the Holy Spirit.
The end of our story, I got really good news everybody, we've already experienced redemption, but restoration is coming.
Jesus promises he will return, he will come from the clouds, come on, he'll have that sword in his hands and he will restore Revelation 21, says he will make all things new.
Can we put our hands together and thank God that we know the end of the story.
Our eternity with Him to catch this.
Right now, we live right here.
And a great way to think about this is even in a constructive history, you know, the cross was like D-Day in World War II, where we took back the beachhead.
And really, the victory was one that day, but we still had to walk out that victory.
There were still a period of time before what was called V-Day Victory Day.
And this is exactly where we live as we experience suffering here on fallen earth between what theologians call the already and the not yet.
And this is just to help us today and it'll be more of this in your notes today.
But what does that really look like?
In the already not yet, we are free from sense penalty.
Anybody grateful for that?
But yet we still feel sense pool, which we all would agree with that.
We are righteous in Christ, yet we still battle the flesh.
We are children of God, yet we still wrestle with insecurity and identity.
We have the peace of God, yet we obviously, many of us have experienced this face, anxiety, and depression.
We are healed.
Yet we still experience sickness in our bodies.
God has already overcome the world, yet in this world we still face trials and temptations.
God is not the cause of our suffering.
It's the result of living on a fallen planet.
And listen, I have these props here because I'm going to preach the rest of this message in the reality that we all live in between the already and the not yet.
So now to verse four.
Jesus says something so powerful and these truths building each other.
Now this is not milk toast, this is a mature teaching and we need it because we're walking through some real stuff.
I have sat this week with so many different people walking through suffering right now and I feel that as a pastor in this moment and we need something solid to put our feet on.
Jesus says in verse four, this sickness will not end in death, know it is for God's glory.
God promises our suffering, write it down, will not be wasted.
Can I get an amen?
This makes us very different.
Christianity is one of one.
It's important for us to recognize this.
This makes us very different from any other worldview or religion out there.
There's kind of three basic kind of worldviews out there.
One is the secular worldview, which we are facing in America in 2025 in a huge way, which says, you know, suffering is meaningless.
Because if there is no God, there is no redemption.
So just make life about comfort.
Don't we see that everywhere we look?
It's just that kind of like, man, just make whatever it takes to be happy.
Do that.
I mean, old school, we don't use this anymore, but that's like the yellow mindset.
Like you only live once, just go for it.
Second school of thought is this kind of moralistic religion idea.
We gotta be careful because Christianity can become this if we're not careful.
That says, you know, suffering is all about payback.
It's all about God's punishment.
Can I preach something today?
The wrath of God was satisfied on the cross.
We are no longer under the law.
We are under grace.
I need a little more applause out there than that.
That's a big truth.
And there are even people.
Today, Christianity teaching something very different, that is heresy.
Come on, God's grace is there.
God is a good guy.
We are underneath his grace.
Our decisions have consequences, but those are not punishment from God.
That's a result of us living where we live here on planet Earth.
And then the last kind of school thought is just really sad.
It's called fatalism.
That's a horrible word in itself, which basically just means the story is already written.
It's like the Titanic.
It's like it's going to sink.
So just the best thing you can do is rearrange a few deck chairs and enjoy yourself on the way down.
But thank God,
that we follow Jesus.
And thank God for what we believe, which is that Christianity says suffering is redemptive.
We do not deny the pain or glorify it.
We believe God transforms it.
And here's a second memory verse for us today, all right?
You got one, Jesus web, here's the second one.
It's a little longer, but you need it, I need it.
Romans 828, this is what we believe in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who've been called according to his purpose.
Now just to build some faith here today, all right, we're gonna move on.
Who out there at every location online, even if you're by yourself right now, who has seen the goodness of God?
Who can testify to Romans 828?
Come on, put your hands together.
Let's build faith today.
So hey, look at me.
He's done it before in your current suffering, he will do it again.
And maybe you're like, I've never experienced that.
That applause was meant to build your faith.
God will meet you right where you are.
in your situation.
It will not be wasted.
God will get glory from that situation.
Here's the final kind of truth.
And this one, y'all, this is like, we kind of went from milk to solid food.
Y'all ready for some like steak?
This is big.
This is when Lazarus, you know, he heard Lazarus was sick.
Jesus stayed where he was for two more days.
Write it down.
God's timing and suffering rarely matches our timing.
And I gotta dig into this for a moment.
And I have been praying for this to be a revelation way beyond my ability to communicate it, that God, that the truth of this idea would jump off of the pages of the Bible into every heart of every single person, which is probably all of us who are walking through a trial or suffering right now.
There are three things, and we'll have us do a little true or false game for a moment.
There are three truths or possibly false in this text that I want us to pull out.
Number one, is Lazarus sick, true or false?
Come a little louder, is Lazarus sick, true or false?
All right, the next one.
Is Lazarus loved by Jesus?
True or false?
Next one.
Jesus stayed where he was two more days, true or false?
Look at me.
They're all three true at the same time.
At the same time.
In your trial right now, you need to know this today.
Jesus knows about your suffering.
He sees the sickness.
He sees the suffering.
You need to know today, you are loved by God.
Go back to part one of this series.
He went to that cross with you.
on his heart.
It was for the joy set before him, your life that he went to that cross.
And the third thing is true as well.
Hear me today, church.
Jesus' timing is perfect.
Pastor, I don't understand this timing thing.
I got maybe bad news for you today.
I don't either.
Here's why.
Isaiah 55, for my thoughts, God, this is God.
My thoughts are not your thoughts.
Neither are your ways, my ways, declares the Lord as the heavens are higher than the earth.
So are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts
higher than your thoughts.
We are serving a God.
Thank God that is bigger than all of us.
And we have to trust that his thoughts are bigger, his thoughts are higher.
Pastor Chris always says that we would answer our own prayers the exact way God does if we knew everything he did.
And that is so true.
God just has a different perspective.
Are you meant everybody?
All right, so that's the reality of where we live.
God didn't cause our suffering.
It's not gonna be wasted.
His timing.
is perfect.
All right, so back to our text.
Anybody love the Bible out there today?
Man, I love the Bible.
Can I be honest with you?
I could talk about Jesus forever.
He is so, so good.
This story, thank God for John chapter 11.
I'm going to skip a few verses here.
There's a really funny story.
I mean, I like to like kind of diss on the disciples, but if you really honestly
Look at it.
The disciples are like a mirror for all of us.
They're always having these funny conversations with Jesus that look a lot like our conversations with Jesus.
They're so confused by this whole situation.
He's Lazarus is sick.
They're not going to help him.
And Jesus starts talking about it, you know, and that we are going to go there.
And then they're like, we can't go to Judea because if we go there, we're going to die.
And Jesus is like, well, we're going to go there because Lazarus is asleep.
And they're like, well, if he's asleep, he'll be OK. Like, it's just all funny to say ever.
And then basically Jesus just kind of shuts down the conversation.
He's like, we're going.
All right, we're going to him.
And this is where this is going to become very practical for us today.
So lean in here, receiving today, what I'm about to share from God's word, if you're in suffering, these next passages are going to help us right where we are.
Verse 16 says, then Thomas.
And everybody knows the label that Thomas has given in history.
What is that?
What is it?
He's doubting Thomas.
But can I tell you right here?
In this context, this is Thomas' shining moment.
It says, then Thomas, who was also known as Dittamas, which just means twin, said to the rest of his disciples, let us also go that we may die with him.
Listen, I know that our God, Thomas, ends up being a doubter, but he's also a ride or die friend.
Because most of us, y'all, we're going to die.
We're going the other way.
I want to go the way where I live.
Thomas is like, yo, if Jesus is going to die, I'm going with him.
Who needs some Thomas' in that context in your life?
Not the doubting kind.
The writer die kind.
I know I do.
And if you're going through suffering, you have never needed people more than right now.
And I want to talk about small groups, but don't go there in your head to like pastors given a commercial.
It is not about a program of our church.
I know this, that testimony from Mackenzie is one of literally now 25 years and hundreds of thousands of testimonies.
I was in a trial, I was in a situation, and even her story, I was alone, but when I got into community, it didn't even change automatically, but I was no longer alone.
I had some writer die people.
And if you've never been a part of small groups here, we invite you into relationship.
Yes, we grow, yes, we find freedom.
But the best part of small groups is we don't do life alone.
Can I get amen today?
All right, so back to the text of verse 17, this is now Jesus going to Lazarus, to go into this situation.
It says, on his arrival, Jesus found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb for four days.
Now, Bethany was less than two miles from Jerusalem.
And many Jews had come to Martha and Mary to comfort them in the loss of their brother.
When Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went out to meet him, but Mary stayed at home.
So we're gonna get two distinct stories here, one about Martha, one about Mary, and spoiler alert, we need what Jesus ministered to them.
We need not one or the other, we need both.
First, it's Martha.
Lord Martha says to Jesus, if you had been here, my brother would not have died, but I know that even now God will give you whatever you ask.
Jesus said to her, your brother will rise again.
Martha answers, I know he's gonna rise again in the resurrection at the last day, and then we get this beautiful verse.
Jesus says to her, no, no, no, no, Martha, you don't understand, I'm the resurrection in the life.
The one who believes in me will live even though they die, and whoever lives by believing in me will never die.
Do you believe this?
Let me ask you in the Church of the Highlands, do you believe this?
Come on, somebody, this is what we believe.
So powerful.
Verse 27, yes, Lord, she replies.
So Jesus meets her right where she is.
I get it, I believe you're the Messiah, the Son of God who has come into the world.
Verse 28, now after she had said this, she went back and called her sister Mary aside.
The teacher is here, she said, and is asking for you.
When Mary heard this, she got up quickly and went to him.
Now Jesus had not yet entered the village, he was at the still of the same place where he had ministered to Martha.
When the Jews who had been with Mary in the house, comforting her, noticed how quickly she got up and went out.
They followed her and the Bible is making sure we know there are witnesses to what's about to happen.
Supposing she was going to the tomb to mourn there.
When Mary reached the place where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet and very different, it starts the same, but it becomes a very different interaction.
Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
And when Jesus saw her weeping and the Jews who had come along with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit and troubled.
Where have you laid him?
He asked, come and see Lord, they replied.
And then we get our verse 35, Jesus wept.
These are gonna be practical, but I'm praying right now you would open your heart for these last eight or nine minutes of this message to the power of the truths that we see in this text, because these are the handles that God has given us in the middle of your situation right now.
These are the ways that we can put our life, our fate, and our trust in Jesus, and he can meet us right where we are.
And the first one is this, kind of the question, why is Jesus even there in the first place?
And I just got a highlight, it was all the way back in verse three.
Jesus is there because the sisters sent word to him.
What is the first thing we do in suffering?
Come on church, in our suffering, we reach out to Jesus.
It's almost like if you remember movies at least, I've never actually been to a doctor that did this, like where they hit your knee with one of those like little kind of rubber hammers, you know, and you're like, your knee pops out.
I'd never actually, I would kind of like to have that done to see if I have good reflexes.
But I love the image right there of, you know what?
The moment I encounter suffering, boom, I'm reaching out to Jesus.
And this, it's, I think it's always going to happen when the Richter scale is on a 10.
But church, Jesus invites us to reach out to him if it's the smallest situation.
Whatever it is, it is still, whatever you're going through today, he cares.
And the moment you reach out to him, Psalm 34, 17 gives us a promise, the righteous cry out, and what does God do?
God hears, and God responds, he delivers.
Church, I said God hears, and it's right there in one verse.
It's all throughout the Bible, but I love the fact that in that text right there, Psalm 34,
We see that he hears you know that today.
God hears you.
So reach out to him.
And I love the fact that he delivers.
Now, what does that deliverance look like?
Well, really three things are going to happen when we pray.
God's going to say, yes, we all love the yes.
God's going to say, we're going to, yes, but we're going to wait for a moment.
Or God's going to say, because all his promises are yes, by the way.
God's going to say, no, not quite like that.
There's a better way.
But regardless.
If prayers are our first response, we can know in our hearts, and we're going to do this later in the service today, that God has heard us and God is moving in that situation.
It's our first, well, we're a pray first church.
It is our first response.
We're even going to end the service a little different today.
We're going to stay together as an entire church family.
We have this every week, but I'm going to highlight it today, and we've had literally hundreds, if not thousands of people already today,
Make their way up front at the end of the service to receive prayer, because just like the sisters pray together, you don't have to leave here today without praying with someone, our prayer teams would love to agree with you in the middle of your situation.
We reach out to Jesus.
Now, I kind of mention this, but I want to highlight this next idea is so interesting and important that both Martha and Mary, who they have a unique experience with Jesus, but their language, their first words out of their mouth are the same.
If you had just been here, this wouldn't have happened.
So write it down today, in our suffering, we refuse to lose faith in Jesus.
It's very interesting, they're hurting.
They are confused.
In church, that is all fair.
In suffering, we're gonna hurt, and there's gonna be times of confusion.
Maybe that's where you are right now.
But they still have faith.
They never doubted who he was.
If you'd have been here, they don't understand that part, but we know this.
If you'd have been here, it'd have been a different result.
And in the middle of our suffering, this is not just suffering,
Honestly, the school of suffering is where we learn this, is at the end of the day, our faith cannot be transactional.
It's relational.
Our faith cannot just be based on, you know, God, if you're being a good God, you do good things and you're good.
And if things aren't going our way, then I'm going to lose faith.
It's like transactional.
Like we'll never, number one, that's a miserable way to live.
And we'll never get through the suffering seeing the goodness of God, because we'll try to control it ourselves.
Can anybody else been there?
If we don't trust God in that moment, we'll go,
And usually making things worse, that our faith ultimately has to be in Him, not just in His ways.
Galatians 220 says, I've been crucified with Christ.
I no longer live, but Christ lives in me.
Come on, come on, grab this today.
This may be the greatest faith decision you make today.
I'm gonna put my faith in the Son of God, because He loves me, and He gave Himself up for me.
It is not transactional.
Our faith is relational.
Maybe the greatest example of this in the Bible is John the Baptist.
You can go read in Matthew chapter 11.
This is where we have to come to in suffering.
Again, this is a way to teaching.
This is a mature teaching, but I know in our desperation of the moment we're in, with our hearts open, God wants to meet us right where we are.
John the Babis, he's Jesus' cousin.
He's been prophesied over.
He'll prepare the way.
He has these the same age as Jesus.
He has 30 years of ministry where Jesus is waiting for those last three years.
John the Babis is ministering.
He's proclaiming the way.
He's baptizing people.
Then he ends up in prison.
He ends up in suffering.
He's confused and hurting.
He actually sends, after all of that.
He's blood related to Jesus.
See, the prophecy, all of it.
All of it, he sends word to Jesus in his pain.
He sends word to Jesus.
Are you the Messiah or should we expect someone else?
That's real.
Jesus is an answer.
It's what we're gonna get from heaven.
He says, all I can tell you, John, in prison, the blind see,
The lame walk, the deaf ear, here, the gospel is received, but I'm not getting you out of prison, John, and blessed are you if you're not offended with me.
You're gonna have to trust in me, trust that I am good.
And you're timing may be different, you don't quite see the whole story that I see in the middle of a church, trust me.
Not just into my actions, trust who I am.
Prisoner in the third cell, Jean Edwards says this,
have now come face to face with a God who you don't fully understand.
You've met a God who's not lived up to your expectations.
That's all of us at some point.
Every believer must come to grips with a God who did not do things quite the way it was expected.
You're gonna get to know your Lord by faith or you will not know Him at all.
Faith in Him, trusting Him, not just in His ways.
The question for Church of the Highlands today in our suffering is, will we follow a God we don't understand and bless or all of us if we're not offended with Him?
It's powerful.
It's in our suffering.
Everybody okay out there today?
It's real.
It's a decision today.
I sense the presence of God.
We reach out to Him.
We refuse to lose faith.
Here's a third one in our suffering we receive from Jesus.
I've been so excited to preach this today.
Two stories, we need both.
Martha comes to Jesus.
She comes like eye to eye with Him.
It's really interesting.
Some of us are a lot like this.
We just gotta work it out.
She starts working, you know, and you work it out.
People out there, she's like, I got some questions for you, Jesus.
And I'm going to take this opportunity to ask those questions.
I have faith in you, but I'm a little confused right now.
So we're going to have this conversation and they have this conversation and she ends up getting the resurrection and the life first, praise God for that.
And she's good.
She's like, I got that truth.
And the first thing we need, we need both of these, but the first thing we need in the middle of our situation is we need truth.
Jesus gives Martha truth.
And in your suffering, in your situation, church, the greatest practical thing we can do is walk out of this room today and attach the Word of God, the truth of God, to our situation.
Can I get an amen in church today?
Because it never fails, never fails.
So in your app, I gave you 15 or 20 more verses.
Here's three that I felt led to share.
Our present sufferings can't compare to future glory, the restoration of God.
Suffering will produce something, perseverance.
and hope is on the way.
And come on, Psalm 34, 18, the Lord is close to the broken heart.
Anybody grateful for the truth of God's word?
Come on, we gotta put our feet on it.
We need truth in our suffering, but we also need something else.
Jesus gives Mary tears.
He does not scold her.
She literally falls at his feet.
She's crushed.
I know some of us at church today are crushed.
He does not scold her.
He is not mad at her.
And best of all, Jesus is not indifferent with her.
Y'all do know then like 10 minutes, he's gonna get that guy out of the grave.
I know I haven't read it yet.
Church, you do know Lazarus is coming out of that team.
But how good is our God that he would not let her be alone in her suffering for even 10 minutes?
In the God of the universe,
That suffering didn't happen to him.
He chose in that moment when it says Jesus wept.
He literally chose to enter into the fullness of her pain.
He did not stand on the sidelines church.
Oh, come on, let him in today.
He stepped fully into her pain and he wants to do the same thing for you today.
Jesus wept in the original language is like a desk room.
Wasn't small tears.
He is broken because she is broken.
He gives her truth.
He gives her tears.
In fact, the Bible tells us what did Jesus come to do?
He came to bring truth and grace, and we see it here in John 11.
Back to our text.
Once more deeply moved, Jesus came to the tomb.
Now I know that language and the English is the same, deeply moved, but hey guys, in this moment, this is, oh, this is so good.
Jesus is no longer weeping.
In fact, in the original language, that deeply moved means he is literally snorting like a bull.
He is furious.
He is not furious with Martha.
He is not furious with Mary.
He is furious at death.
And come on, somebody, our God is on the way to do something about it.
That's who Jesus is.
This is real out of the world.
Not today, not enough time.
This is love.
I'm gonna go do something about it.
I'm gonna bring grace and I'm gonna bring truth.
Watch this.
I got to, he gets to the tune.
I gotta get to that tune.
Take away the stone, he says.
But Lord said, Martha, the sister and the dead man, by this time there is a bad odor for he's been dead for four days.
Can I pause right here?
Why the wait?
Why timing?
In Jewish culture, they believe for three days the spirit would hover over a dead body, but old church come on by the fourth day, it was too late, it was over.
There was no hope in God's perfect timing.
He arrives on the scene to prove once and for all who he is.
Our God is a good God.
Did I not tell you that if you believe you will see the glory of God?
They took away the stone and Jesus looked up and said, Father, I thank you that you've heard me.
I know that you always hear me.
But I said this for the benefit of the people standing here, that they may believe you have sent me.
When he had said this, Jesus called and allowed voice.
Lazarus come out.
The dead man came out, his hands and feet wrapped with strips of linen and cloths around his face.
And Jesus said, take off the grave clothes and let him go.
Come on, somebody.
The goodness of our God.
Jesus Christ is the resurrection and he is the life.
He is the resurrection and he is the life.
Here at Church of the Highlands we believe in miracles.
We believe, we're gonna lay hands on anyone today in a situation.
We're gonna pray for the miracle, cancer or healed.
Come on, every situation, every curse of the enemy broken.
I have seen miracle, I have seen someone in a wheelchair come out of a wheelchair on a mission trip in Mexico.
I have seen them with my own eyes and we will pray for you today.
We believe in miracles, but can I just highlight something here today?
Even the guy Lazarus who came out of the grave, he died again.
The real miracle wasn't what Jesus did.
That wasn't the resurrection he was talking about.
What he's saying is, I want to make sure you know in the middle of this moment, you're between the already and the not yet, but I'm not leaving you alone.
I am coming back from redemption to full restoration.
Revelation 21, I'm coming to make all things new.
Your God will wipe away every tear from your eye.
Your God will make, come on.
The truth of Revelation 21 is it's not just we escape to heaven.
He makes all pain and suffering come untrue.
He makes everything new, a new heaven and a new earth.
All those tears wiped away.
I am making all things new.
Church, if we believe this, we can go through any suffering.
This is our future, an eternity with Him.
What authority?
Do I have to preach this today?
One more verse I want to give you.
I think it's verse 53.
So from that day on, they plotted to take the life of Jesus.
Jesus interrupted Lazarus funeral.
And by doing so, he calls his own.
Yeah, he took Lazarus out of that tomb.
And even as he did, he knew he was putting himself in that tomb.
But he wasn't going to stay in that tomb.
He went into that tomb so that death would be destroyed forever.
He did not end up in that tomb called three days later.
We already said it.
Let's celebrate today.
He came out of that tomb.
He's the resurrection and the life.
And because of that, you can experience that power today.
You can experience the resurrection power in your suffering today.
Would you bow your heads, close your eyes.
Church, let's receive today.
Let the Holy Spirit minister to us.
I know this is a huge topic, and I'm so sensitive right now to all the situations in the room.
I can almost, in the spirit, feel the weight.
So let's go to the one place that we can experience the power and peace of God His presence.
Maybe you're here today, right now, open your hearts up today.
Maybe what you came to church needing more than anything is a truth to stand on in your suffering.
Open your heart, receive every heads bowed, every eyes closed, these three verses.
or on my heart today, back to Romans 828, in this moment, you need to know in your suffering that God will work all things for the good of those who love Him.
Stay in love with Him.
Keep following Him in your moment.
Lamentations 3, 22 and 23, receive this today because of Lord's great love, you will not be consumed by this suffering.
His compassion never fails.
They are new every morning.
Great is His faithfulness, and Jesus' name received it.
John 11, 25 and 26, that He is the resurrection
In the life right now, God, we let you come all everyone in the sound of our voice.
We let you end our suffering.
We receive that truth.
We put our feet on that truth.
But God, we also receive the grace you demonstrated to Mary.
Do you know Jesus right now wants to step in so that you're not alone in your suffering?
Would you invite his presence into your situation?
Maybe you haven't yet.
Come on, this is your moment.
Reach out to him.
Jesus, we reach out to you and we invite you into
Our marriage, our finances, our future, our fear, our anxiety, we invite you in Holy Spirit, step in.
And even as he does in Jesus' name right now, receive the peace of God that transcends understanding.
You're still in this situation, but now you have peace.
God, we receive your power.
We receive your strength.
We receive your hope today.
All of us are still together here at the church in this moment, every location.
If you're here today,
Maybe the truth, and there's a truth you need to receive more than any other.
Maybe this is you today, and that is the truth of salvation that God can meet you right where you are and save you today.
I'm not gonna embarrass you or call you down front, but I cannot end this service for offering you the opportunity to begin a real relationship with Jesus.
The Bible says for that to happen, in a moment like this, all we have to do is confess and believe.
So I wanna pray a prayer if that's you, even if it's a rededication, this is your moment, just pray with me in your heart, say Jesus today,
I confess you as Lord and Savior.
As Lord, I commit, come on, tell Him to follow you all the days of my life.
I choose your way over my way.
I've got to receive you as Savior from telling that you're my Savior.
I confess my sin.
I ask you to forgive me in this moment.
And God, I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit so I can walk out of here, change new and living for you.
God, I pray for those who just made that decision, the best decision of their entire life.
Bless them today in Jesus' name.
God, I pray one last time for all of us as we head into our week.
In the middle of our trial, in the middle of this situation, we receive your truth, we receive your grace, we receive your love, and we say, you are a good, good God.
In Jesus' name, everybody said, well, can you put your hands together and let's celebrate, especially those who just made this decision for Jesus?
We're going to finish out together and please no one moving around except for our ushers.
You guys can make your way a few things I want to walk us through and then we're going to have a time of worship.
And as I mentioned, our prayer teams are going to come down front.
And so if you came prepared to give today, you can go ahead and get that ready.
You know, worship is an expression or giving is an expression of worship.
It's our chance really just to honor God uniquely through our generosity and I just
As your pastor want to say thank you, you are the most incredibly generous church on the planet.
I know you don't do that for us, you do it for God, but I want to make sure you know we have the fear of the Lord to steward every single dollar for His glory.
And here at Grants Mill we have actually our pastor Chris Irwin who's been at Montgomery for 15 years.
He and his wife Rachel are getting ready to launch Prattville, our Prattville campus February 1st.
That's just another sign of your generosity and action on mission.
And so thank you for being so generous.
And I want to pray a prayer over you as you give in a moment.
If you have that connection card, for those who just made a decision today, church is not an event.
Church is a family.
And that connection card is our way to really get to know you.
It's our first step in what it will be a lifelong journey of doing life together.
So if you got saved today, let us know that.
We'll send you next steps.
If you have a prayer request, if you're going through a situation, that will be prayed over.
Every single one of them this week, it'd be our honor to do that.
You can prepare that and then we'll have the buckets pass.
You can drop it there in the bucket in a moment.
If you would stand your feet, I'm gonna pray.
The buckets are gonna pass and then we're gonna worship.
The prayer teams are gonna be down front at every location.
If you're walking through a situation, please know it would be our honor today to pray with you and to agree in faith.
Jesus, we love you.
We're grateful today.
We just reflect now on your goodness, your grace, gotta pray a blessing over those who are giving, either in this service or even online.
Bless them, bless their gift, use it all for your glory.
And we just say today, we love you and we're grateful for who you are in Jesus' name.
Amen.